#  chapter 1 study sets

1.  what is the internet from a nuts and bolts view

-  the internet is a network of networks and interconnected internet service providers isp
-  made up of protocols which control sending and receiving of messages
-  http, tcp, ip, wifi, 4/5g, and ethernet
-  internet standards such as requests of comments rfc and internet engineering task force ietf

2.  what is the internet from a services view

-  infrastructure that provides services to applications such as web, streaming video, multimedia, teleconferencing, emails, games, e-commerce, social media, and interconnected applications
-  provides a programming interface to distributed applications 

3.  what is a protocol
-  define the format and order of messages sent and received among network entities and action taken on message transmission

4.  what are the components of a network

-  hosts: include clients and servers
-  servers: often located in data centers
-  access networks: utilize wired and wireless communication links
-  network core: comprises interconnected routers forming a network of networks

5.  What are some connecting end systems to edge routers

-  residential access networks:  connect end systems to edge routers for home users
-  institutional access networks:  serves schools and companies
-  mobile access networks:  include wifi, 4/5g for mobile connectivity.

6.  What are the four access network technologies

-  cable based access
-  home networks
-  wireless access networks
-  data center networks

7.  what is packet transmission

-  hosts break messages into packets for transmission
-  packet transmission delay depends on packet size and link capacity
-  packet switching involves forwarding packets across routers to their destinations

8.  what is physical media 

-  guided media: signals propagate through solid media like copper, fiber, and coaxial cables
-  unguided media: signals propagate freely, such as in wireless radio links
-  media types include coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, and wireless radio

9.  what is packet switching

-  packet switching involves breaking data into packets for transmission

10.  what is circuit switching 

-  circuit switching allocates dedicated resources for end to end communication

11.  what is frequency division multiplexing

-  a frequencies are divided into narrow frequency bands, each call allocates its own band, and can transmit at a max rate of that narrow band

12.  what is time division multiplexing?

-  time is divided into periodic slots and can transmit at a maximum rate of wider frequency bands during its time slots.

13.  what is the difference between packet and circuit switching

-  the differences are in terms of resource allocation and network efficiency

14.  what are the four sources of packet delay and loss

1.  processing delay
2.  queueing delay
3.  transmission delay
4.  propagation delay

15.  what is packet queueing delay

-  queueing delay determined by packet arrival rate, length, and link bandwidth
-  relation between arrival rate and service rate impacts queueing delay
-  high arrival rate relative to service rate leads to infinite average delay

16.  what is throughput and bottleneck links

-  throughput is the rate of bits sent from sender to receiver
-  bottleneck links constrain end-to-end throughput
-  comparison of packet switching and circuit switching scenarios

17.  what are some forms of packet interception?

-  packet sniffing on broadcast media captures all passing packets
-  ip spoofying injects packets with false source addresses
-  denial services attacks overwhelm reources with bogus traffic

18.  what are some network security defense strategies

-  authentication, confidentiality, integrity checks, and access restrictions
-  firewall filtering which filters incoming packets to prevent attacks

19.  explain the protocol layered design

-  networks consists of hosts, routers, links, applications, and protocols
-  layering provides modularization for system maintenance and updates
-  layered internet protocol stack from physical to application layers

20.  what is the osi refernce model?

-  presentation layer interprets data meaning (e.g. encryption)
-  session layer manages synchronization and data exchange recovery.

21.  what are the network protocol layers?

application, transport, network, link, physical

22.  what are the ideas of layering?

-  break a complex communication problem into smaller easier to solev communication problems
-  each layer encapsulates in its blocks the data of the previous layer
-  each layer communicates with its peer layer using formatted blocks of data

23.  what are the responsibilities of the application layer?

-  application exchanges messages to implement some application service using the transport layer.
-  supports http, dns, smtp, imap

24.  what are the responsibilities of the transport layer?

-  process-process data transfer
-  supports tcp, and udp
-  transfers from one process to another using services of the network layer
-  encapsulates application layer message with transport layer header to create a transport layer segment

25.  what are the responsibilities of the network layer?

-  routing of data grams from source to destination
-  supports ip and routing protocols
-  transfers transport layer segments from one host to another using link layer services
-  encapsulates transport layer segments with network layer header to create a network layer datagram

26.  what are the responsibilities of the link layer

-  data transfer between neighboring networking elements
-  supports ethernet, wifi, pop
-  transfers data gram from host to neighboring host using network services
-  encapsulates network datagram with link layer header to create a link layer frame

27.  what are the responsibilities of the physical layer?

-  responsible for transmission over a physical layer and conversion of bits to analog waveforms
